1_2_1_to_1_2_2_Introduction_to_docker_and_postgres.md, before:

# Docker

----

## Starting with docker

To build the docker image

```shell
docker build -t name:tag .
```

`-t or --tag` the syntax for the following to be the name and tag

`name:tag`

The <u>_**name**_</u> signifies the name of the docker image

The <u>**_tag_**</u> is the tag image it can be used to give version names

![image](https://i.imgur.com/i0RNJ5j.png)

```dockerfile
FROM python:3.11.0rc1

WORKDIR /code

COPY ./src ./src

ENTRYPOINT ["bash"]
```

----

To create the container

```shell
docker run --name image_test_container -it name:tag
```

With this, after running this with the dockerfile, it will run the container with the name of `image_test_container`
from the image `name:tag`

![](https://i.imgur.com/XVc68zC.png)

---

typing `exit` will exit the docker

---

|    command     |                  description                  |
|:--------------:|:---------------------------------------------:|
|  `docker ps`   |       show all of the active container        |
| `docker ps -a` | show all of the active and inactive container |

---

## Running the python program

```dockerfile
FROM python:3.11.0rc1

WORKDIR /code

COPY ./src ./src

ENTRYPOINT ["python", "src/main.py"]
```

----

```dockerfile
FROM python:3.11.0rc1

WORKDIR /code

COPY ./requirements.txt ./requirements.txt

RUN pip install --no-cache-dir -r requirements.txt

COPY ./src ./src

ENTRYPOINT ["python", "src/main.py"]
```

---

## installing pip

```shell
pip freeze > requirements.txt
```

```shell
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

-----

## Postgresql

### postgresql at docker

```shell
docker run -it \
  -e POSTGRES_USER="root" \
  -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD="root" \ 
  -e POSTGRES_DB="ny_taxi" \
  postgres:13
```

`-e` or `--env` for setting the environmental variables

This is the normal setup for basic postgres at docker

----

#### Postgres with the configured env

```shell
docker run -d \
  --name postgres_container \
  -it \
  -e POSTGRES_USER="root" \
  -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD="root" \
  -e POSTGRES_DB="ny_taxi" \
  -v $(pwd)/ny_taxi_postgres_data:/var/lib/postgresql/data \
  -p 5432:5432 \
  postgres:13

sudo chmod a+rwx ny_taxi_postgres_data
```

`-v` or `--volume` for mounting a volume

`-p` or `--publish` mapping the port from the host machine to the container

`/var/lib/postgresql/data` this is where the postgresql will save the local data for postgres

`-v $(pwd)/ny_taxi_postgres_data:/var/lib/postgresql/data`

Need to map the data from the docker to the host machine

`-d` or `--detach` to be able to run in detach mode

Also added some name to the container, so it won't be random name

![](https://i.imgur.com/4rmyjKg.png)

![](https://i.imgur.com/uS1m3gZ.png)

The finished setup for the postgres

-----

#### Setup error

![](https://i.imgur.com/fsazoaY.png)

`-v $(pwd)/ny_taxi_postgres_data:/var/lib/postgresql/data`

Should be able to copy the data normally, but upon checking the folder. I cannot access it due to lacking admin perms
even though I am the admin

```shell
sudo chmod a+rwx ny_taxi_postgres_data
```

This issue is also detailed on the course

[Link to the said issue](https://github.com/DataTalksClub/data-engineering-zoomcamp/tree/main/week_1_basics_n_setup/2_docker_sql#linux-and-macos)

---

### postgresql cli

Install cli for postgres at the env

```shell
pip install pgcli
```

Connect to the postgres via cli

```shell
pgcli -h localhost -p 5432 -u root -d ny_taxi
```

---

### Pgcli error

![](https://i.imgur.com/oqk57Fo.png)

```shell
pgcli -h localhost -p 5432 -u root -d ny_taxi
```

Running the pgcli to check the connection to postgres results into the error

Install the postgres library

```shell
pip install psycopg2-binary
```

And still the same error

[Stackoverflow Issue](https://stackoverflow.com/a/64565388/14859274)

[To the specific answer](https://stackoverflow.com/a/64565388/14859274)

```shell
sudo apt-get install libpq-dev
```

Re-run the commands again, and now be able to access just fine.

![](https://i.imgur.com/ba0VLgG.png)

---

### Getting of the data

Downloading of the data

```shell
wget https://github.com/DataTalksClub/nyc-tlc-data/releases/download/yellow/yellow_tripdata_2021-01.csv.gz
gzip -d yellow_tripdata_2021-01.csv.gz
```

Added a library for the progress

```shell
pip install tqdm
```

Now proceed to the [upload_data.ipynb](files/week1/upload_data.ipynb) for to append of the data to the
postgresql


---

| Return to table of contents | Next page                                                                   |
|-----------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [Readme.md](README.md)      | [Connecting pgAdmin and Postgres](1_2_3_Connecting_pgAdmin_and_Postgres.md) |

Commit message:

added link to the headers to other pages too

1_2_1_to_1_2_2_Introduction_to_docker_and_postgres.md, after:

# Docker

1. [Starting with docker](#starting-with-docker)
2. [Running the python program](#running-the-python-program)
3. [installing pip](#installing-pip)
4. [Postgresql](#postgresql)
   1. [postgresql at docker](#postgresql-at-docker)
      1. [Postgres with the configured env](#postgres-with-the-configured-env)
      2. [Setup error](#setup-error)
   2. [postgresql cli](#postgresql-cli)
   3. [Pgcli error](#pgcli-error)
   4. [Getting of the data](#getting-of-the-data)
5. [Pages](#pages)

----

## Starting with docker

To build the docker image

```shell
docker build -t name:tag .
```

`-t or --tag` the syntax for the following to be the name and tag

`name:tag`

The <u>_**name**_</u> signifies the name of the docker image

The <u>**_tag_**</u> is the tag image it can be used to give version names

![image](https://i.imgur.com/i0RNJ5j.png)

```dockerfile
FROM python:3.11.0rc1

WORKDIR /code

COPY ./src ./src

ENTRYPOINT ["bash"]
```

----

To create the container

```shell
docker run --name image_test_container -it name:tag
```

With this, after running this with the dockerfile, it will run the container with the name of `image_test_container`
from the image `name:tag`

![](https://i.imgur.com/XVc68zC.png)

---

typing `exit` will exit the docker

---

|    command     |                  description                  |
|:--------------:|:---------------------------------------------:|
|  `docker ps`   |       show all of the active container        |
| `docker ps -a` | show all of the active and inactive container |

---

## Running the python program

```dockerfile
FROM python:3.11.0rc1

WORKDIR /code

COPY ./src ./src

ENTRYPOINT ["python", "src/main.py"]
```

----

```dockerfile
FROM python:3.11.0rc1

WORKDIR /code

COPY ./requirements.txt ./requirements.txt

RUN pip install --no-cache-dir -r requirements.txt

COPY ./src ./src

ENTRYPOINT ["python", "src/main.py"]
```

---

## installing pip

```shell
pip freeze > requirements.txt
```

```shell
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

-----

## Postgresql

### postgresql at docker

```shell
docker run -it \
  -e POSTGRES_USER="root" \
  -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD="root" \ 
  -e POSTGRES_DB="ny_taxi" \
  postgres:13
```

`-e` or `--env` for setting the environmental variables

This is the normal setup for basic postgres at docker

----

#### Postgres with the configured env

```shell
docker run -d \
  --name postgres_container \
  -it \
  -e POSTGRES_USER="root" \
  -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD="root" \
  -e POSTGRES_DB="ny_taxi" \
  -v $(pwd)/ny_taxi_postgres_data:/var/lib/postgresql/data \
  -p 5432:5432 \
  postgres:13

sudo chmod a+rwx ny_taxi_postgres_data
```

`-v` or `--volume` for mounting a volume

`-p` or `--publish` mapping the port from the host machine to the container

`/var/lib/postgresql/data` this is where the postgresql will save the local data for postgres

`-v $(pwd)/ny_taxi_postgres_data:/var/lib/postgresql/data`

Need to map the data from the docker to the host machine

`-d` or `--detach` to be able to run in detach mode

Also added some name to the container, so it won't be random name

![](https://i.imgur.com/4rmyjKg.png)

![](https://i.imgur.com/uS1m3gZ.png)

The finished setup for the postgres

-----

#### Setup error

![](https://i.imgur.com/fsazoaY.png)

`-v $(pwd)/ny_taxi_postgres_data:/var/lib/postgresql/data`

Should be able to copy the data normally, but upon checking the folder. I cannot access it due to lacking admin perms
even though I am the admin

```shell
sudo chmod a+rwx ny_taxi_postgres_data
```

This issue is also detailed on the course

[Link to the said issue](https://github.com/DataTalksClub/data-engineering-zoomcamp/tree/main/week_1_basics_n_setup/2_docker_sql#linux-and-macos)

---

### postgresql cli

Install cli for postgres at the env

```shell
pip install pgcli
```

Connect to the postgres via cli

```shell
pgcli -h localhost -p 5432 -u root -d ny_taxi
```

---

### Pgcli error

![](https://i.imgur.com/oqk57Fo.png)

```shell
pgcli -h localhost -p 5432 -u root -d ny_taxi
```

Running the pgcli to check the connection to postgres results into the error

Install the postgres library

```shell
pip install psycopg2-binary
```

And still the same error

[Stackoverflow Issue](https://stackoverflow.com/a/64565388/14859274)

[To the specific answer](https://stackoverflow.com/a/64565388/14859274)

```shell
sudo apt-get install libpq-dev
```

Re-run the commands again, and now be able to access just fine.

![](https://i.imgur.com/ba0VLgG.png)

---

### Getting of the data

Downloading of the data

```shell
wget https://github.com/DataTalksClub/nyc-tlc-data/releases/download/yellow/yellow_tripdata_2021-01.csv.gz
gzip -d yellow_tripdata_2021-01.csv.gz
```

Added a library for the progress

```shell
pip install tqdm
```

Now proceed to the [upload_data.ipynb](files/week1/upload_data.ipynb) for to append of the data to the
postgresql


---

## Pages

| Return to table of contents | Next page                                                                   |
|-----------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [Readme.md](README.md)      | [Connecting pgAdmin and Postgres](1_2_3_Connecting_pgAdmin_and_Postgres.md) |
