README.md, before:

# Docker

----

## Starting with docker 

To build the docker image

```shell
docker build -t first:tag .
```

`-t or --tag` the syntax for the following to be the name and tag

`first:tag`

The <u>_**first**_</u> signifies the name of the docker image

The <u>**_tag_**</u> is the tag image it can be used to give version names

![image](https://i.imgur.com/GcW9012.jpeg)

```dockerfile
FROM python:3.11.0rc1

WORKDIR /code

COPY ./src ./src

ENTRYPOINT ["bash"]
```

----

To create the container

```shell
docker run --name image_test_container -it first:tag
```

With this, after running this with the dockerfile, it will run the container with the name of `image_test_container`
from the image `name:tag`

---

typing `exit` will exit the docker

---

|    command     |                  description                  |
|:--------------:|:---------------------------------------------:|
|  `docker ps`   |       show all of the active container        |
| `docker ps -a` | show all of the active and inactive container |

---

## Running the python program

```dockerfile
FROM python:3.11.0rc1

WORKDIR /code

COPY ./src ./src

ENTRYPOINT ["python", "src/main.py"]
```

----

```dockerfile
FROM python:3.11.0rc1

WORKDIR /code

COPY ./requirements.txt ./requirements.txt

RUN pip install --no-cache-dir -r requirements.txt

COPY ./src ./src

ENTRYPOINT ["python", "src/main.py"]
```

## installing pip

source ../docker_venv/bin/activate

Commit message:

added the image for docker container updated the image for docker image
updated the requirements.txt for the sqlalchemy

corrected the naming scheme for much easier reading experience
added the pip freeze

README.md, after:

# Docker

----

## Starting with docker 

To build the docker image

```shell
docker build -t name:tag .
```

`-t or --tag` the syntax for the following to be the name and tag

`first:tag`

The <u>_**name**_</u> signifies the name of the docker image

The <u>**_tag_**</u> is the tag image it can be used to give version names

![image](https://i.imgur.com/i0RNJ5j.png)

```dockerfile
FROM python:3.11.0rc1

WORKDIR /code

COPY ./src ./src

ENTRYPOINT ["bash"]
```

----

To create the container

```shell
docker run --name image_test_container -it name:tag
```

With this, after running this with the dockerfile, it will run the container with the name of `image_test_container`
from the image `name:tag`

![](https://i.imgur.com/XVc68zC.png)

---

typing `exit` will exit the docker

---

|    command     |                  description                  |
|:--------------:|:---------------------------------------------:|
|  `docker ps`   |       show all of the active container        |
| `docker ps -a` | show all of the active and inactive container |

---

## Running the python program

```dockerfile
FROM python:3.11.0rc1

WORKDIR /code

COPY ./src ./src

ENTRYPOINT ["python", "src/main.py"]
```

----

```dockerfile
FROM python:3.11.0rc1

WORKDIR /code

COPY ./requirements.txt ./requirements.txt

RUN pip install --no-cache-dir -r requirements.txt

COPY ./src ./src

ENTRYPOINT ["python", "src/main.py"]
```

## installing pip

source ../docker_venv/bin/activate

```shell
source ../docker_venv/bin/activate
pip freeze > requirements.txt
```
